# 1.3 Electric Circuits

{% hint style="success" %}
**GOAL:**  Understand how to create electric circuits by connecting parts to the IoT circuit board \(use of pins, jumper wires, breadboard, and power\)
{% endhint %}

## Electric Circuits

explain



## Power Source

The Photon circuit board can supply power to inputs and outputs through these pins:

### Positive Pins

* **I/O Pins:**  These pins can supply 3.3 volts \(by reducing the incoming voltage from the USB or barrel jack power source\). Certain inputs and outputs \(but **not** all\) get their power from an I/O pin.
* **3.3V:**  This pin supplies 3.3 volts \(by reducing the incoming voltage from the USB or barrel jack power source\).
* **V-USB:**  If a USB power source is connected, this pin supplies ~5 volts.
* **VIN:**  If an external power supply is connected to the barrel jack, this pin supplies the same voltage as the external supply \(which could range from 4.5-15 volts\).  For example, if a 9V battery with adapter is plugged into the barrel jack, this pin would supply 9 volts.

### Negative Pins

* **GND:**  This pin acts as the ground \(negative terminal\) when powering inputs and outputs. The Photon circuit board has 3 available GND pins.

{% hint style="danger" %}
**CAUTION:**  The inputs and outputs in your Photon kit have different power requirements:

* Certain inputs and outputs \(such as: accelerometer, micro OLED display, etc.\) require only 3.3 volts of power – using a higher voltage could damage these parts.
* Certain inputs and outputs \(such as: motion sensor, servo motor, etc.\) require 5 volts of power or more – using a lower voltage could prevent these parts from working.
{% endhint %}

## Breadboard

A breadboard is very helpful for connecting inputs and outputs to your circuit board. Your inputs and outputs connect to pins in the breadboard, and then jumper wires are used to help connect those breadboard pins to specific pins on your circuit board.

Using a breadboard allows you to connect multiple inputs and outputs to some of the same power supply pins – while still ensuring that each input and output has its own parallel circuit. For example, there is only one V-USB pin that supplies 5V, but your device might have multiple inputs and outputs that require 5V of power – so a breadboard can be used to allow these parts to share the V-USB pin.

### Connecting Inputs and Outputs

explain

### Connecting Power Rails

explain

