# 2.2 Login to Web IDE

Now that your Photon is connected to Wi-Fi and Particle Cloud, your team will use the Particle Build code editor to start creating your "Hello World" app.

## What is Particle Build?

**Particle Build** is an online code editor \(web IDE\) provided by Particle.  Particle Build is part of the Particle Cloud platform. You will log in to Particle Build to code and store all your Photon device apps.

The Photon device itself can only store and run **one** app at a time. However, you can create and save multiple apps in Particle Build. When you need to update the specific app stored on your Photon device, you'll do this in Particle Build – and your Photon will download the new app over Wi-Fi.

Your team will need a Particle account to log in to Particle Build.  However, your teacher will most likely provide your team with an **existing** Particle account login \(email & password\) that's already associated with your specific Photon device. Every Photon has a unique device ID it uses to communicate with Particle Cloud. Each Photon device ID can only be associated with one Particle account.

## Particle Build Login

One person on your team should log in to [Particle Build](https://login.particle.io/build) using your team's Particle account login.



Introduction to Particle Build user interface

Verify device is claimed, and signal device over Wi-Fi

View device ID and access token \(username and password for device\)

Verify device firmware version \(and update if necessary\)





