# 2.6 Loop Function

Next you'll add commands in your app code to turn the LED on and off in a repeating pattern.

## Turn On LED

Your app can **receive signals from inputs** using the `digitalRead()` or `analogRead()` methods, depending on whether the values being received will be digital or analog.

Your app can **send signals to outputs** using the `digitalWrite()` or `analogWrite()` methods, depending on whether the values being sent will be digital or analog.

{% hint style="info" %}
**DIGITAL VS. ANALOG:**  Digital inputs and outputs use **binary values** \(such as: HIGH vs. LOW, etc.\). Analog inputs and outputs use a **range of values** \(such as:  0-255, etc.\)
{% endhint %}

The LED can be controlled as a digital output that is either "on" or "off".

You'll need to send an "on" signal to the LED pin. Add this code to your app by inserting it **within** the `loop()` function \(between the curly braces\):

```cpp
digitalWrite(LED, HIGH);
```

The `digitalWrite()` method requires two parameters inside its parentheses \(in this order\):

1. **The I/O pin number**, which can be the actual pin number \(such as: `D7`, etc.\) or a variable that stores a pin number. In this case, the variable `LED` is listed \(which has a value equal to `D7`\).
2. **The signal value**, which can be `HIGH` or `LOW`. Your Photon uses this value to send an electrical signal through the pin: `HIGH` is a signal of 3.3 volts which represents "on," while `LOW` is a signal of 0 volts which represents "off."  In this case, the signal was set to `HIGH` because you want to turn on the LED light.

