# 3.9 Web App JS

Next, you'll add code to your web app JS file to make your web app interact with your Photon device through Particle Cloud.

## Create Particle Object {#create-particle-object}

The Particle API JS library defines a class of [objects](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_objects.asp) called `Particle()` which have built-in methods that allow your web app to interact with your Photon device through Particle Cloud.

Copy this JavaScript code statement, and paste it into a **blank** JS file named `code.js`:

```javascript
var particle = new Particle();
```

This creates a new `Particle()` object and assigns it to a global variable named `particle`. Your web app JS will use this object's methods to interact with Particle Cloud.

## Add Device ID & Access Token {#device-id-and-access-token}

In order for a web app to interact with a Photon device through Particle Cloud, the web app must provide a device ID and access token with each request. This ensures your web app communicates with the correct device – and prevents unauthorized apps from communicating with your device.

Your web app JS code should declare global variables to store your Photon device ID and access token. You'll get their values from your Particle Build account.

Add this code to your `code.js` file, and then modify it:

```javascript
var myDevice = "0000"; // Photon device ID
var myToken = "0000"; // Photon access token
```

{% hint style="danger" %}
**IMPORTANT:** You must modify this code to insert your actual Photon device ID and access token. Otherwise, your web app will **not** work properly.
{% endhint %}

Your Photon's unique **device ID** is listed in the **Devices** menu of your Particle Build account:

1. Click the **Devices** icon in the left navigation bar.
2. In the **Devices** menu panel, click the drop-down arrow to the right of your Photon device name.
3. Select and copy the device ID.
4. Paste the device ID into your JS code as the value for `myDevice` \(the device ID must be listed within quotation marks\).

Your Photon's unique **access token** is listed in the **Settings** menu of your Particle Build account:

1. Click the **Settings** icon in the left navigation bar.
2. In the **Settings** menu panel, select and copy the access token.
3. Paste the access token into your JS code as the value for `myToken` \(the access token must be listed within quotation marks\).

## Get Device Variable

explain

### 

### Set Interval to Get Variable

If your web app needs to continuously monitor the value of a Photon variable, you can use the `window.setInterval()` method to automatically call a function at a set time interval \(such as every 5 seconds, etc.\).

Add this code statement to your `code.js` file:

```javascript
window.setInterval(checkLights, 200);
```

The `window.setInterval()` method requires two parameters inside its parentheses \(in this order\):

1. **The name of the function to be called**, which should be the name of the custom function in your JS that contains the `particle.getVariable()` method for the variable you need to monitor. The custom function's name should be listed **without** a set of parentheses. In this case,`checkLights` is the name of the function.
2. **The time interval between calls**, which will be the amount of time between each call to the function. The time interval is specified in milliseconds \(1000 ms = 1 second\). In this case, the interval was set to `200` ms \(every 0.2 seconds\).

## Call Device Function

explain

